

The influencer results show which entities were anomalous and when. One
influencer result is written per bucket for each influencer that affects the
anomalousness of the bucket. The ((ml)) analytics determine the impact of an 
influencer by performing a series of experiments that remove all data points 
with a specific influencer value and check whether the bucket is still 
anomalous. That means that only influencers with statistically significant 
impact on the anomaly are reported in the results. For jobs with more than one 
detector, influencer scores provide a powerful view of the most anomalous 
entities.

For example, the `high_sum_total_sales` ((anomaly-job)) for the eCommerce orders
sample data uses `customer_full_name.keyword` and `category.keyword` as
influencers. You can examine the influencer results with the
[get influencers API](((ref))/ml-get-influencer.html). Alternatively, you can use
the **Anomaly Explorer** in ((kib)):

image::images/influencers.jpg["Influencers in the ((kib)) Anomaly Explorer"]

On the left is a list of the top influencers for all of the detected anomalies
in that same time period. The list includes maximum anomaly scores, which in
this case are aggregated for each influencer, for each bucket, across all
detectors. There is also a total sum of the anomaly scores for each influencer.
You can use this list to help you narrow down the contributing factors and focus
on the most anomalous entities.

You can also explore swim lanes that correspond to the values of an influencer.
In this example, the swim lanes correspond to the values for the 
`customer_full_name.keyword`. By default, the swim lanes are sorted according to
which entity has the maximum anomaly score values. You can click on the sections
in the swim lane to see details about the anomalies that occurred in that time
interval.

<DocCallOut title="Tip">
The anomaly scores that you see in each section of the **Anomaly Explorer**
might differ slightly. This disparity occurs because for each ((anomaly-job)),
there are bucket results, influencer results, and record results. Anomaly scores
are generated for each type of result. The anomaly timeline in ((kib)) uses the
bucket-level anomaly scores. If you view swim lanes by influencer, it uses the
influencer-level anomaly scores, as does the list of top influencers. The list
of anomalies uses the record-level anomaly scores.
</DocCallOut>

